---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

This was a short week since the lab was off for the 4th of July on Mon. and Tues. At the end of last week, we created two goals to guide the rest of the work this summer. 

1. Goal: We want to avoid importing the data into Python and serializing it and reading it back in C++.
- Task 1: Use Python/C++ to construct intervention views and then use DuckDB inside the generated C++ code to access intervention views. Evaluation: benchmark C++ code compilation and execution before and after this change
- Task 2: Use DuckDB in generated C++ code to access lineage data directly as well.
2. Goal: Improve on interventions generation process -> better compressions scheme and execution over compressed data.
- Task 1: use sparse representations of matrices and adopt intervention evaluation to apply their logic using sparse matrices set up and began testing retrieval methods from duckdb in C++.

The first part of this is to benchmark retrieval of streaming data using default encoding vs. custom bitstring encoding in C++. I figured out how to use DuckDB in C++ and began familiarizing myself with their C++ API. DuckDB is written in C++, so consulting the source code helps since the documentation for the C++ API is pretty poor.

By the end of the week I was familiar with the C++ classes QueryResult, DataChunk, and Vector, as well as the UDF (User-Defined Functions). An understanding of these are all needed to effectively query from DuckDB in C++ and manipulate the results. 

I was able to write the code to fetch a streaming query for benchmarking. 
