---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

DREAM is coming to a close, so this week I have to wrap up what I'm doing and leave it in a useful state to handoff to the next person working on this project. In our main repo, I created a new brach for my work and have pushed my changes to it.

I added some new parameters to FaDE, so attributes and table names can be dynamically passed in by a user, and an intervention matrix can be made from them. 

In the version I edited, the new parameter string is like so:

```
python3 -m prov_eval.compile --code-out build/src/q01.cpp --data-out build/objects --deletion-probability 0.1 --interventions 1 --attr l_returnflag --table lineitem --pruned-lineage --query-file queries/tpch/tpch_01.sql --query-name q12 --threads 1 --timing --db build/db/scale0.001.db --sf 0.001
```

Previously, there were no attributes for --attr, or --table, which are the intervention matrix parameters. If I had more time, I would probably have coded it so they're passed as a one dictionary, {orders: \[ price, status \] , regions: \[ state \]} to create interventions on the order.price, order.status, and regions.state attributes. This will be useful when multiple interventions are passed in one query. 


In addition, I'm testing my work so it can be compared against what has been done before. I only had time this week to test my updated version against the older version, and found that my version was slower. I was disappointed that my work didn't yield an improvement, and I wished I had left more time for testing. I lost a lot of time in the last two weeks trying to reconcile all the different versions of DuckDB I had configured, and the different versions needed by FaDE. I know it is still valuable to know what doesn't "work" as part of scientific inquiry, since eliminating negatives is the flip side of finding positives. Even so, I was still a little bummed to end the summer on a somewhat anti-climactic note. 

Even so, I learned a lot in the DREAM program, not only about databases, C++, Python, and generative code, but also about how research is conducted within CS. One of my key goals for the summer was understanding how CS questions are asked and answered in a research setting (as opposed to a product-oriented setting). I definitely have a grasp on this process now, and it has sparked my curiosity about research more generally. It's something I hope to continue in the school year.   



