---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

In the project meeting, we discussed a faster and cleaner encoding system. Last week, the encoding system I was benchmarking used queries like this:

`SELECT (o_totalprice = '131251.81') | ((o_totalprice = '40183.29') << 1) | ((o_totalprice = '160882.76') << 2) | ((o_totalprice = '31084.79') << 3) ...` etc., where the result would be a column of some fixed bit-width, where each bit in the result corresponds to the intervention.

The new idea from Prof Wu is to create an encoding system that will still allow us to get the result in a single query, but does the query not take so long to execute (as the above is very slow in the benchmark tests).

Given relation R with some attribute x:
**R** 
| x |
|--|
| 0 |
| 10 |
| 50 |
| 10 |
| … |
| 200 |


Get numbered, ordered list of all distinct values over x [mapping from original value (sparse) to encoded value (dense)]
S = SELECT rowid, C.x FROM (SELECT DISTINCT x FROM R ORDER BY x) C;    
S:
| x | num |
|--------|
| 0 | 0 |
| 10 |  1 |
| 50 | 2 |
| … | … |
| 200 | 66 |


For all discrete values, join the numbered keys onto the original relation.


T = SELECT num FROM LEFT JOIN R AND S WHERE R.x = S.x;                
 // join attribute to its key num in original relation R


T: R x S
| x | num |
|--------|
| 0 | 0 |
| 10 |  1 |
| 50 | 2 |
| 10 |  1 |
| … | … |
| 200 | 66 |



Using a UDF,  translate each item into a bit shifted bitstring based on its index in the column. Return vectors of 64-bit bitstrings.

For every 64 attributes, create a 64-bit register for each tuple in f(i), where i is an increment of 64 (ex. i = 0, for attributes 0 - 63, i = 1 for attributes 64 - 127). 
Every row in the tuple is translated into a bitstring where it is 0 if attribute = value is not in range. 
```
f(T, i): 
	r = 64;
	vector<bitstring> result = {};

		for all t in T: 
bitstring<64> b = 1;
	if(t >= r*i && t < r*i + r)
b <<= r - (t - r*i) - 1;
else
b = 0;
```

I have been looking at DuckDB documentation and examples to understand how to translate this into actual C++ code.  
  

