---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

I'm deep in FaDE and trying to understand all the different templates, and how it works. The user passes in some parameters, which are used by the system to create a configuration. In addition to FaDE, I'm familiarizing myself with SMOKE, which handles the lineage for the query. My method will have to work with SMOKE in some way, since they'll both interact with the source database. 

Given a query, FaDE outputs: 
```
load :  build/db/tpch_scale_1.0.db
name
0      customer
1      lineitem
2        nation
3        orders
4          part
5      partsupp
6  queries_list
7        region
8      supplier
PragmaTraceLineage 1
PragmaTraceLineage 0
HASH_GROUP_BY
PROJECTION
PROJECTION
SEQ_SCAN
skipping aggregation column #0
skipping aggregation column #1
```

By modifying the query and examining the new output, I can get a better sense of how it works. 

I now have a very basic working version of a GROUP BY query, but all of the parameters are hard-coded in. I started with the materialized query (as opposed to using the cursor), and am using the GetValue method instead of reading the results via pointer. I'm concerned this will impact my performance, as that method is very slow. 

Here is an example of a modified Jinja template for a single-intervention GROUP BY query, modified with new intervention retrieval and using the GetValue method:

```
{% for gbid in range(n_preds) %}
for (int i = 0; i < {{input_size}}; ++i)
    (*{{name}}_{{gbid}})[(*keys_{{opid}})[i]] += result->GetValue<unsigned long long>(0, i) * (*values_arr_{{opid}}_{{gbid}})[i];
{% endfor %}
```

Next steps: 
- Testing code against old version.
- Making code work with a more complex example.
- Make code work with all queries (ex. other GROUP BYs, JOINS, etc.)
- Creating views and query within code itself (currently it is manually added).

Given the summer is ending, I have to prioritize just some of these tasks. 
